content/adventures/minihaven.en.md, before:

+++
title = 'minihaven'
series = []
date = 2025-08-25T12:44:21+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# a diminutive report of a tiny adventure in the world of *haven

## the past

this Summer, as I was going to spend a couple of days in a Spanish village, I wanted to restart the campaign again (let's call it Campaing #1). there is not much more to do and the game is easy to carry and set up. I was already playing in May 2024 (last year), but Scenario #5 became very challenging. also, a bunch of other things started happening, so it ended slipping my mind (well, mostly my schedule).

so, let's say the adventure started some time ago, but it was left in limbo, my tiny adventurer stuck in the paused period of time that exists between books, series, climbing sessions and many other games.

now, instead of resuming their journey, the adventurer travels in time and the adventure commences again.


## now

### Scenario #1

Mazacote, a bruiser, got engaged into a very simple fight (Scenario #1) right after getting shrunk when trying to visit the Crooked Bone to visit Hail in search of fame. *(I suspect characters and places would be more recognisable if I had played Gloomhaven fully, but I have only been playing JotL until now, even if I had plan for a long campaign for last Winter... anyway...)*

Scenario #1 is simple enough, and I followed the tutorial again to remind myself of the rules and what's available vs what is not. set it at home while having coffee and just had fun with it. very simple and satisfactory victory, with minimum HP loss.

I messed up a bit during the only short rest, because I didn't realise it applies to any card you might still have in your hand as well. but it was not a big problem.

### Scenario #2

moving on to Scenario #2, there is a bit more variety of foes. it makes it a bit more logistically complex but paying attention to what's happening is rewarding on its own.

with a bit of an overkill, Mazacote tried to finish off the two closest foes by pushing them onto traps and getting close and personal to the archers, while keeping some distance from the last archer.

this worked quite well although he ended up with pretty low health. it was rushing and dropping all the hits as fast as possible that worked.


### Scenario #3

#### attempt #1

with the ability to use items, after meeting the Collector, there is a bit more of nuance and choices to make. on the one hand this is a higher level scenario and Mazacote also levelled up. on the other, there are different effects to apply (or not) and experimentation is needed.

the first go at Scenario #3 was **almost** successful. at the end, there was a single enemy left but it got the initiative and managed to hit consuming all the remaining HP. it was an archer adjacent to Mazacote (who was planning on dropping heavily on them), but move away to lose the disadvantage.

I don't remember if the first time around it was an easy win or not (I suspect not). it is here that the puzzle aspect of Gloomhaven BnB starts to become apparent, and some strategy is required in order to maximise the chances of success.

while reviewing the rules (did I do everything correctly? did I cheat or missed anything inadvertently?), I discovered that the original rule booklet (and the Living Rules I copied as a PDF in 2024) has been deprecated a bit. mainly in the section about advantage and disadvantage (or at least that's the part I found about).

it was a calm game in the small park of the village, while my cousin and his family, as well as other kids, started to make the most out of the colder part of the day (the Sun was stil up). very quick set up and storage, no pieces lost, and lots of silence (at most the murmur of the local folk talking about today's electricity cuts and some other matters).

Commit message:

added last attempt for scenario 4 (and fixed its number).

content/adventures/minihaven.en.md, after:

+++
title = 'minihaven'
series = []
date = 2025-08-25T12:44:21+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# a diminutive report of a tiny adventure in the world of *haven

## the past

this Summer, as I was going to spend a couple of days in a Spanish village, I wanted to restart the campaign again (let's call it Campaing #1). there is not much more to do and the game is easy to carry and set up. I was already playing in May 2024 (last year), but Scenario #5 became very challenging. also, a bunch of other things started happening, so it ended slipping my mind (well, mostly my schedule).

so, let's say the adventure started some time ago, but it was left in limbo, my tiny adventurer stuck in the paused period of time that exists between books, series, climbing sessions and many other games.

now, instead of resuming their journey, the adventurer travels in time and the adventure commences again.


## now

### Scenario #1

Mazacote, a bruiser, got engaged into a very simple fight (Scenario #1) right after getting shrunk when trying to visit the Crooked Bone to visit Hail in search of fame. *(I suspect characters and places would be more recognisable if I had played Gloomhaven fully, but I have only been playing JotL until now, even if I had plan for a long campaign for last Winter... anyway...)*

Scenario #1 is simple enough, and I followed the tutorial again to remind myself of the rules and what's available vs what is not. set it at home while having coffee and just had fun with it. very simple and satisfactory victory, with minimum HP loss.

I messed up a bit during the only short rest, because I didn't realise it applies to any card you might still have in your hand as well. but it was not a big problem.

### Scenario #2

moving on to Scenario #2, there is a bit more variety of foes. it makes it a bit more logistically complex but paying attention to what's happening is rewarding on its own.

with a bit of an overkill, Mazacote tried to finish off the two closest foes by pushing them onto traps and getting close and personal to the archers, while keeping some distance from the last archer.

this worked quite well although he ended up with pretty low health. it was rushing and dropping all the hits as fast as possible that worked.


### Scenario #4

this is the first scenario skip, with Mazacote’s traits taking the lead, so he just rushes in (no sneaking around for my bruiser).

#### attempt #1

with the ability to use items, after meeting the Collector, there is a bit more of nuance and choices to make. on the one hand this is a higher level scenario and Mazacote also levelled up. on the other, there are different effects to apply (or not) and experimentation is needed.

the first go at Scenario #4 was **almost** successful. at the end, there was a single enemy left but it got the initiative and managed to hit consuming all the remaining HP. it was an archer adjacent to Mazacote (who was planning on dropping heavily on them), but move away to lose the disadvantage.

I don't remember if the first time around it was an easy win or not (I suspect not). it is here that the puzzle aspect of Gloomhaven BnB starts to become apparent, and some strategy is required in order to maximise the chances of success.

while reviewing the rules (did I do everything correctly? did I cheat or missed anything inadvertently?), I discovered that the original rule booklet (and the Living Rules I copied as a PDF in 2024) has been deprecated a bit. mainly in the section about advantage and disadvantage (or at least that's the part I found about).

it was a calm game in the small park of the village, while my cousin and his family, as well as other kids, started to make the most out of the colder part of the day (the Sun was stil up). very quick set up and storage, no pieces lost, and lots of silence (at most the murmur of the local folk talking about today's electricity cuts and some other matters).

#### attempt #2

a different day and a cooler one at that. had coffee in the patio, chose a different set of items and action cards.

it was a quite fast attempt, and I did better regarding advantages and disadvantages, but ended in a similar fashion as last time: a foe with too much health left and Mazacote with one good hit away from failing. can you guess what happened? exactly that.

I had to retcon part of one round because I was applying shields from foe’s actions similarly to element infusions (and that is not what the rule says). I might have also moved the enemies in a (to me) intelligent manner, that might go against the rules, by moving into a trap to be able to melee attack.

so, a 15/20 minute game with some learnings and fun. therefore successful even if Mazacote didn’t progress further.

at night, I found the promo scenarios, which I will not play now, but try to print for playing on the next campaign. 2029 perhaps? nah, I’ll try to have a few sessions per week to progress with this one (and other limboed adventures as well).
