content/adventure/noshow.en.md, before:

+++
title = 'noshow'
series = []
publishDate = 2025-12-31T12:49:16+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# Born in twilight

## chapter 1

the story of Twyla Zandikih’een is a fuzzy one. it may well be a wished life, a twisted version of reality or just a retrofitted story. regardless, she is clearly a female tiefling: sharp teeth, horns and tail. golden eyes that look into a world she doesn't fully fit in.

her birth created some convulsion locally. a tiefling born amidst a well established elvish family in a midsize town, a long line of merchants going back several generations in the area (6 at that time?). the newborn was the 7th sibling, and something didn't go as expected regarding her birth. the bumps on her forehead, and the orange hue to her skin were worrying, but when she opened her eyes to the world, and a tiny tail unfurled and slipped through the fingers of the midwife... then there was no doubt. it was perceived as a catastrophe, perhaps a curse finally catching up with the family bloodline, announcing a move towards "darkness" and the end of prosperity for the family. in any case, it was an event that the folk from her town were not ready to cope with easily. and neither did her family.

it is not that the town was not cosmopolitan enough, or stuck and in the past. they knew about tieflings and their origin. there were several trade fairs during the year, gathering people from diverse origins, and there was a good mix of elves, dwarfs, haflings, humans and even goliaths living in town. other than during the fairs, orcs, dragonborn and tieflings also passed by with some frequency and stayed for some time in town lodgings, either as a short stop or as a temporary basecamp to explore the surroundings. in other words, a tiefling was not a new sight. but a tiefling born in town? that was new.


her family named her "Twilight".

as she grew, she became a bit of an outcast within her family: she was cared for (and loved, or so was assumed) but kept at a distance like a shameful affair. she spent more and more time left to her own devices, just being watched over, the family always attentive in case something unexpected would happen. nobody talked about the reason she was born a tiefling, or at least not to her ears, but there were several rumours. depending on who and where the rumour came from, either there was an ancestor of the family who fought against a devil and was cursed for it, or the ancestor entered into a pact with a devil to gain wealth, or her mom had an affair with a slick, attractive and redish travelling dealer.

she created a new identity for herself: "Twyla". she will have her own surname based partially on her family surname. the family surname is something Twyla has never told anybody (it her perhaps ended in "Kih'een"). with this she wanted to emphasise her disregard for norms and conventions, and set herself apart from her family. that is how she identified herself to everyone new she met fleetingly as a preteen. she was 9 when the Twyla Zandikih’een persona was born, in a way a different person removed from the reality of a family that guarded her but saw her mostly as an error, or an outsider.

she was barely 13 when she discovered her connection to magic, erupting as light from her fingers in a joyous Summer night. confused and afraid, this was the last push to finally make her feel rootless and unbounded. she wished to abandon her family and her hometown to go find her place in the world, to explore her identity, and the reach of her new found abilities. it was not a matter of proving wrong everyone she knew, but to exercise her belief on her own exceptionality, willpower, and uniqueness, freeing herself from the struggles against orthodoxy, ranks and labels.

there is still some sorrow and love for her family (perhaps not all her family), or at least respect for the people that took care of her. she didn't want her actions to reflect on her family in any way (not to ashame them further, nor to bring renown, not to make proud, not to draw attention).
She had already play this game in which she was a different person, with a different family. and she already had her own name. now it was a matter of taking it a bit more seriously.
Twilight disappeared into Twyla, keeping her origins hidden, with no way to track it down to her family or past.

Commit message:

Still working on Twyla's back story

content/adventure/noshow.en.md, after:

+++
title = 'noshow'
series = []
publishDate = 2025-12-31T12:49:16+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# Born in twilight

## chapter 1

the story of Twyla Zandikih’een is a fuzzy one. it may well be a wished life, a twisted version of reality or just a retrofitted story. regardless, she is clearly a female tiefling: sharp teeth, horns and tail. golden eyes that look into a world she doesn't fully fit in.

her birth created some convulsion locally. a tiefling born amidst a well established elvish family in a midsize town, a long line of merchants going back several generations in the area (6 at that time?). the newborn was the 7th sibling, and something didn't go as expected regarding her birth. the bumps on her forehead, and the orange hue to her skin were worrying, but when she opened her eyes to the world, and a tiny tail unfurled and slipped through the fingers of the midwife... then there was no doubt. it was perceived as a catastrophe, perhaps a curse finally catching up with the family bloodline, announcing a move towards "darkness" and the end of prosperity for the family. in any case, it was an event that the folk from her town were not ready to cope with easily. and neither did her family.

it is not that the town was not cosmopolitan enough, or stuck and in the past. they knew about tieflings and their origin. there were several trade fairs during the year, gathering people from diverse origins, and there was a good mix of elves, dwarfs, haflings, humans and even goliaths living in town. other than during the fairs, orcs, dragonborn and tieflings also passed by with some frequency and stayed for some time in town lodgings, either as a short stop or as a temporary basecamp to explore the surroundings. in other words, a tiefling was not a new sight. but a tiefling born in town? that was new.


her family named her "Twilight".

as she grew, she became a bit of an outcast within her family: she was cared for (and loved, or so was assumed) but kept at a distance like a shameful affair. she spent more and more time left to her own devices, just being watched over, the family always attentive in case something unexpected would happen. nobody talked about the reason she was born a tiefling, or at least not to her ears, but there were several rumours. depending on who and where the rumour came from, either there was an ancestor of the family who fought against a devil and was cursed for it, or the ancestor entered into a pact with a devil to gain wealth, or her mom had an affair with a slick, attractive and redish travelling dealer.

she created a new identity for herself: "Twyla". she also crafted her own surname based partially on her family surname. the family surname is something Twyla has never told anybody (it perhaps ended in "Kih'een"). with this she wanted to emphasise her disregard for norms and conventions, and set herself apart from her family and a tradition which seemed to push her away. she introduced herself as Twyla to everyone new she met fleetingly as a preteen. she was 9 when the Twyla Zandikih’een persona was born into the world (mostly just Twyla, the surname she didn't share often), in a way a different person removed from the reality of a family that guarded her but saw her mostly as an error, or an outsider.

she was barely 13 when she discovered her connection to magic, erupting as light from her fingers in a joyous Summer night. confused and afraid, she kept it a secret (one more): it felt a last push to make her feel both rootless and unbounded. she wished to abandon her family and her hometown to find her place in the world, to explore her identity, and the reach of her new found abilities. it was not a matter of proving wrong everyone she knew, but to exercise her belief on her own exceptionality, willpower, and uniqueness, freeing herself from the struggles against orthodoxy, ranks and labels.

there is still some sorrow and love for her family (perhaps not all her family), or at least respect for the people that took care of her. she didn't want her actions to reflect on her family in any way (not to ashame them further, nor to bring renown, not to make proud, not to draw attention to them or to her origins).
she already had a self-given full name,  had already played this game in which she was a different person, with a different family. told stories of this Twyla Zandikih'een to herself and to some other people. now it was a matter of taking it a bit more seriously and fully becoming Twyla. it was then that Twilight disappeared into Twyla, hiding her origin under lock and key, with no easy way to track it down to her family or past.

where Twilignt was XXX, Twyla is YYY.

perhaps somebody might remember a brief chat with the little tiefling from a market town. 

other than that sketch of Twyla's past as Twilight, there are only conjectures. maybe with time more details about her family and her past would be known. or her fiendish legacy would come to light (my bet is on an ancestor blood pact with a demon to gain success and weatlh).
