content/adventure/zleth.en.md, before:

+++
title = 'zleth'
series = []
date = 2024-09-09T19:08:25+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# outro/intro

after the last patrol in Langston, I said my goodbyes to continue my trip to the Ephenbald's farm. got rid of some clutter before the trip and reflected a bit on the experience and conversations with Roy during my trip into the forest and towards the coast.

I feel more robust, having had a first round of real battles, and practiced archery quiet a lot, a much preferred approach than using swords to fight. from spending some time and chats with Roy I realised I can manipulate the magic essence present in nature and perform some spells. part of it applies to my archery, and now I am able able to mark my quarries if I concentrate, allowing me to hit more precisely, causing more damage. this is great! I feel like a suddenly much better archer!

also, food. I learned to create goodberries, kind of magic snack food but packed with nutrients. say bye to rations! it feels weird eating so little and feeling satiated and requiring only water, but it would do in a pinch, and it is great not having to worry about food. but I would miss a lot eating and chewing, so let's consider it a bit of... emergency rations.

and that's all, I kept travelling.

some of it was lonely. paths in the forest, or not well frequented roads. some of it got me onto busier roads and I accompanied a small caravan for a while. upon making night with the caravan near a trade post, I wandered around and found myself sitting near a bonfire and sharing some wine (finally!) with some explorers. we talked for a long time and they shared their stories and current tasks: they talked about exploring a jungle where rumours say there is an ancient lost city. that expedition is following the steps of a previous expedition that failed, and they need some support: a guide, or perhaps a map.
after waking up the next day, with a bit of a hangover, the caravan and the explorers where already gone, but apparently the explorers left too fast: a rider came and enquired about them. it seems there was a map they could use, or they were contacted to deliver. either there was some confusion, they decided not to retrieve it or were not aware of. perhaps this rider was another explorer that was late to the party and changed their mind. however it was, I agreed to deliver the map to the expedition into/through the jungle in exchange of an equal share of the treasure (the rider produced some contract, either theirs or a blank one) and a payment advance.
money is not that relevant (even if it helps, of course), but the opportunity to explore the jungle and the remains of some ancient civilisation were enticing. did they coexist with nature? what are their stories?

so he accepted, took the 75gp advance, the map, the contract and spend the day getting to the jungle. it seemed a fantastic place to get lost and dehydrated due to the heat, and somewhat dangerous due to the (mostly unknown to Blovo) fauna and flora, which he could feel from its outer bounds. but he decided to continue, spend the night in an improvised camp at the boundaries and then march into the jungle at dawn, making a good pace with the goal of joining the explorers before the end of the day. he is tough and very capable to survive alone in nature, but this is new terrain for him.

left the scrapling claw at Langston, for the guard to use if needed.

p0: so that’s where we are… not far from the expedition camp. yes, they had wagons. ummm, that was a very loud trill, I didn’t hear this one before. let’s see what is going on. 

p74 some lizardfolk are surrounding the expedition (an expedition?). a human is seemly the leader and they claim to have permission, but maybe the lizardfolk changed their mind. there is also some orcish sage/scholar. there is some exchange of words and hissing, the mention of Z’leth upsets the lizardfolk, or rattles them. there is plenty of tension between the two groups and this could explode. time to do or say something.

p12 I am new to this discussion/situation, but I think I should talk to the lizardfolk first, as this is their part of the world, and it is clear to me who the leader is (I might be wrong). I clear my throat. “I am Ylbifin Ephenbald, a member of this expedition… I was away when this started, what is the problem, if I may ask?”

rolled 16

p62 made a good argument for deescalation of the situation, to avoid harm to both sides. it lloks like I convinced them, and the expedition leader (the woman) plays along calling me diplomat. and mentioning the map I carry.

p85 the leader is called Rija and the orc is Gigar Garantham, a professor. she cuts the lizardfolk leader and pushes for the agreement to be fulfilled. there is a situation though, looks like a lizardfolk is about to attack? I am not strong to grapple them, and I don’t yet have a connection with anybody. I am expectant.

p24 Gigar is a frigten kitty and Rija reacts. an impasse. they size each other.

p36 he will guide, Z’ka. seems I was correct thinking different cultures consider aggression differently. being resolute is not being aggressive. not necessarily. Z’ka is more hunched than other lizardfolk. ah! he carries a stone tablet on his back. Rija clearly doesn’t trust him, but she exchanges words with Gigar and welcomes Z’ka.
not everybody is happy, but there is no fight (even if there is still some tension). there might be more to Z’ka than apparent, he did some gesture on the tablet and there was some deference shown by the lizardfolk leader. they disappear in the jungle, only Z’ka stays. 
so, the expedition accepts me, Gigar takes the map. each member priorities are clear.

p52 Rija takes me to the camp and the conversation is short: the camp is set and we will part at dawn. there is food and water, I do not need to worry about equipment for a base camp, should sleep next to the fire so that the smoke drives mosquitoes away, and I will scout with her.

I am left to my own devices.

p91 I will talk to Gigar first.

p82 Gigar sleeps in a wagon, and he is reading in his improvised “office” and allows me in. he is reading his own notebook, with glyphs and drawings of…

p64 (rolled 15+2) odd looking creatures. the glyphs seem notes above “corruption “ affecting “eater, fruits and flesh”. some more recent symbols mean “Z’leth”.

let’s talk to the rest of the crew.

p68 sharing a meal and banter, there is tension about the expedition, let’s dig for info. 

p72 (roller 6) clumsily act to direct and the topic is brushed off. didn’t gain any points with the crew (didn’t lose them either). I leave to talk to Z’ka.

p55 he’s on his own, eating. seems to be reading the tablet he carried on his back, now resting on the ground.

p80 (rolled 4+3) Blovo cannot fathom what Z’ka is doing other than eating (I think it is a magic communication device, or ritualistic at least). he notices me. taps some word on the tablet while making a cryptic comment, and goes back to reading.

p2 Rija. why not checking in with her anyway…? seems to be checking and repacking magical artefacts (black and blue crystals, vials, climbing gear).

p57 (rolled 11+2) I do mot recognise anything. puts the blue crystals in a bandolier. takes her backpack with her. 
didn’t find out much about the expedition. I’ll find a bedroll to sleep in.

p89 I need water (running low, it is hot). due to the notes (and being a ranger) I’ll get water from a stream near the camp, not the barrels. 

p100 water is brownish green and stinks, but nature around it is lush. umm I’ll drink it.

p79 sickness!

p2 (rolled 3+3) Blovo is resistant to poison, not disease. so he feels immediately sick and vomits, dropping to the ground. a female gnome comes to the rescue bringing fresh water. arg, that was rough. I am poisoned until the next long rest (regardless of dwarven resiliance, as this was caused by disease). need to roll a CON 12 to recover. if not, it continues. that gives disadvantage on attack tolls and ability checks. 

I am helped to the camp. 

p45 clean the waterskin and fill it from the barrels. Rija talks a bit and I am just destroyed. rest, but not before creating 10 Goodberries for the next day. just in case.

p20 I recover from the poison overnight (rolled 9+3) after a feverish night filled with the buzzing of the mosquitoes) perhaps the rain that fell helped with that. or the leeches in my boots. well, however it was, I erred and learned.
Rija is the one that woke me up. we are scouting ahead, eating rations on the way, while the camp gets ready. O don’t feel very talkative and last night experience prompts me to be more observant. I’ll walk next to her though. 

p95 we follow some path barely fit for wagons and Rija point to the trees. 

p106 (17+5) the jungle seems thick and corrupted, vines strangling trees, jagged flowers, caws instead of birdsong,bound rotting flesh. subtle clues hint the direction towards the source of the corruption. somewhere NE. 
not sure if Rija perceives the same.

p18 (13+3) a serpent like form is about to drop on us! 

p4 (8+5) the form misses me and uncoils on the ground, two snake heads darting. I move just of reach and get ready to fight.

p66 heads are all mine, Rija is busy with the tail. I jump to get a bit more distance and attack with my bow. I cast hunter”s mark on it and throw. 21 > 12. 14 dmg (with the mark). the single arrow strikes true through both heads, nailing them to a tree slightly upwards from my head. the long scaly body hangs from there while the tail wriggles. rows of sharp teeth dripping saliva, now harmless if still looking menacing.

p51 we should carry it back for study, but I am not strong enough to, so better to dissect it. 

p22 I apply my survival skills (15+5)

p49 extra bones, hardened tumours, oozing fluids… the corruption seems deep. does it have gills? there is a blue crystal in its chest, glimmering faintly. Tija seems interested in it. it looks similar to the ones she carries in her bandolier, if less glowy. she hands it to me.

we pack samples and find Gigar at the camp. he is eager to study them and moves into the wagon. he doesn’t let us in (Rija wanted to follow).

p88 spend the rest of the day at the camp eating and waiting. Gigar comes out. didn’t find anything new but he is now showing Blovo the map delivered.

p6 seems to be work in progress, with new notes added.

p96 (15+4) but the notes are contradictory, useless. there are notes about abnormalities: bird-lizard or , spiny frogs, another two-headed snake. all clustered towards the empty section of the map. towards the NE. S and W seem explored or dead-ends.

let’s get Z’ka

p58 yep, he points and references the NE, and seem to growl at Rija something she understands and nods to. also, something about the sky. time to rest for the night.

p33 but Z’ka wants to show me something. follow him to his area. the tablet resting against a wheel I think he sees himself as warrior and protector. the tablet carries the knowledge of his people and the region, the things in the dark we don’t know. 

p69 I don’t know about the history, bit this points to a civilised society.

p93 (3+3) magical power and crystals. I cannot tell more. “hidden under the under”, says Z’ka. have a goodberry for a snack and create a new batch. nite!

p10 rested (second night in the jungle), Blovo wakes up to the activity of the camp. it seems Rija and Z’ka left scouting on their own towards the NE. Blovo has been assigned yo support Gigar’s investigations. he produces an obsidian amulet representing a winged serpent with feathers instead of scales. Blovo is asked to hold it in order to begin, and he grasps it.

p47 some force gathers in the amulet and rushes to his mind.

Commit message:

quick updates from Barbican. onto some editing and chapter 2.

content/adventure/zleth.en.md, after:

+++
title = 'zleth'
series = []
date = 2024-09-09T19:08:25+01:00
style = '5ePHB'
draft = true
+++

# outro/intro

after the last patrol in Langston, I said my goodbyes to continue my trip to the Ephenbald's81 farm. got rid of some clutter before the trip and reflected a bit on the experience and conversations with Roy during my trip into the forest and towards the coast.

I feel more robust, having had a first round of real battles, and practiced archery quiet a lot, a much preferred approach than using swords to fight. from spending some time and chats with Roy I realised I can manipulate the magic essence present in nature and perform some spells. part of it applies to my archery, and now I am able able to mark my quarries if I concentrate, allowing me to hit more precisely, causing more damage. this is great! I feel like a suddenly much better archer!

also, food. I learned to create goodberries, kind of magic snack food but packed with nutrients. say bye to rations! it feels weird eating so little and feeling satiated and requiring only water, but it would do in a pinch, and it is great not having to worry about food. but I would miss a lot eating and chewing, so let's consider it a bit of... emergency rations.

and that's all, I kept travelling.

some of it was lonely. paths in the forest, or not well frequented roads. some of it got me onto busier roads and I accompanied a small caravan for a while. upon making night with the caravan near a trade post, I wandered around and found myself sitting near a bonfire and sharing some wine (finally!) with some explorers. we talked for a long time and they shared their stories and current tasks: they talked about exploring a jungle where rumours say there is an ancient lost city. that expedition is following the steps of a previous expedition that failed, and they need some support: a guide, or perhaps a map.
after waking up the next day, with a bit of a hangover, the caravan and the explorers where already gone, but apparently the explorers left too fast: a rider came and enquired about them. it seems there was a map they could use, or they were contacted to deliver. either there was some confusion, they decided not to retrieve it or were not aware of. perhaps this rider was another explorer that was late to the party and changed their mind. however it was, I agreed to deliver the map to the expedition into/through the jungle in exchange of an equal share of the treasure (the rider produced some contract, either theirs or a blank one) and a payment advance.
money is not that relevant (even if it helps, of course), but the opportunity to explore the jungle and the remains of some ancient civilisation were enticing. did they coexist with nature? what are their stories?

so he accepted, took the 75gp advance, the map, the contract and spend the day getting to the jungle. it seemed a fantastic place to get lost and dehydrated due to the heat, and somewhat dangerous due to the (mostly unknown to Blovo) fauna and flora, which he could feel from its outer bounds. but he decided to continue, spend the night in an improvised camp at the boundaries and then march into the jungle at dawn, making a good pace with the goal of joining the explorers before the end of the day. he is tough and very capable to survive alone in nature, but this is new terrain for him.

left the scrapling claw at Langston, for the guard to use if needed.

p0: so that’s where we are… not far from the expedition camp. yes, they had wagons. ummm, that was a very loud trill, I didn’t hear this one before. let’s see what is going on. 

p74 some lizardfolk are surrounding the expedition (an expedition?). a human is seemly the leader and they claim to have permission, but maybe the lizardfolk changed their mind. there is also some orcish sage/scholar. there is some exchange of words and hissing, the mention of Z’leth upsets the lizardfolk, or rattles them. there is plenty of tension between the two groups and this could explode. time to do or say something.

p12 I am new to this discussion/situation, but I think I should talk to the lizardfolk first, as this is their part of the world, and it is clear to me who the leader is (I might be wrong). I clear my throat. “I am Ylbifin Ephenbald, a member of this expedition… I was away when this started, what is the problem, if I may ask?”

rolled 16

p62 made a good argument for deescalation of the situation, to avoid harm to both sides. it lloks like I convinced them, and the expedition leader (the woman) plays along calling me diplomat. and mentioning the map I carry.

p85 the leader is called Rija and the orc is Gigar Garantham, a professor. she cuts the lizardfolk leader and pushes for the agreement to be fulfilled. there is a situation though, looks like a lizardfolk is about to attack? I am not strong to grapple them, and I don’t yet have a connection with anybody. I am expectant.

p24 Gigar is a frigten kitty and Rija reacts. an impasse. they size each other.

p36 he will guide, Z’ka. seems I was correct thinking different cultures consider aggression differently. being resolute is not being aggressive. not necessarily. Z’ka is more hunched than other lizardfolk. ah! he carries a stone tablet on his back. Rija clearly doesn’t trust him, but she exchanges words with Gigar and welcomes Z’ka.
not everybody is happy, but there is no fight (even if there is still some tension). there might be more to Z’ka than apparent, he did some gesture on the tablet and there was some deference shown by the lizardfolk leader. they disappear in the jungle, only Z’ka stays. 
so, the expedition accepts me, Gigar takes the map. each member priorities are clear.

p52 Rija takes me to the camp and the conversation is short: the camp is set and we will part at dawn. there is food and water, I do not need to worry about equipment for a base camp, should sleep next to the fire so that the smoke drives mosquitoes away, and I will scout with her.

I am left to my own devices.

p91 I will talk to Gigar first.

p82 Gigar sleeps in a wagon, and he is reading in his improvised “office” and allows me in. he is reading his own notebook, with glyphs and drawings of…

p64 (rolled 15+2) odd looking creatures. the glyphs seem notes above “corruption “ affecting “eater, fruits and flesh”. some more recent symbols mean “Z’leth”.

let’s talk to the rest of the crew.

p68 sharing a meal and banter, there is tension about the expedition, let’s dig for info. 

p72 (roller 6) clumsily act to direct and the topic is brushed off. didn’t gain any points with the crew (didn’t lose them either). I leave to talk to Z’ka.

p55 he’s on his own, eating. seems to be reading the tablet he carried on his back, now resting on the ground.

p80 (rolled 4+3) Blovo cannot fathom what Z’ka is doing other than eating (I think it is a magic communication device, or ritualistic at least). he notices me. taps some word on the tablet while making a cryptic comment, and goes back to reading.

p2 Rija. why not checking in with her anyway…? seems to be checking and repacking magical artefacts (black and blue crystals, vials, climbing gear).

p57 (rolled 11+2) I do mot recognise anything. puts the blue crystals in a bandolier. takes her backpack with her. 
didn’t find out much about the expedition. I’ll find a bedroll to sleep in.

p89 I need water (running low, it is hot). due to the notes (and being a ranger) I’ll get water from a stream near the camp, not the barrels. 

p100 water is brownish green and stinks, but nature around it is lush. umm I’ll drink it.

p79 sickness!

p2 (rolled 3+3) Blovo is resistant to poison, not disease. so he feels immediately sick and vomits, dropping to the ground. a female gnome comes to the rescue bringing fresh water. arg, that was rough. I am poisoned until the next long rest (regardless of dwarven resiliance, as this was caused by disease). need to roll a CON 12 to recover. if not, it continues. that gives disadvantage on attack tolls and ability checks. 

I am helped to the camp. 

p45 clean the waterskin and fill it from the barrels. Rija talks a bit and I am just destroyed. rest, but not before creating 10 Goodberries for the next day. just in case.

p20 I recover from the poison overnight (rolled 9+3) after a feverish night filled with the buzzing of the mosquitoes) perhaps the rain that fell helped with that. or the leeches in my boots. well, however it was, I erred and learned.
Rija is the one that woke me up. we are scouting ahead, eating rations on the way, while the camp gets ready. O don’t feel very talkative and last night experience prompts me to be more observant. I’ll walk next to her though. 

p95 we follow some path barely fit for wagons and Rija point to the trees. 

p106 (17+5) the jungle seems thick and corrupted, vines strangling trees, jagged flowers, caws instead of birdsong,bound rotting flesh. subtle clues hint the direction towards the source of the corruption. somewhere NE. 
not sure if Rija perceives the same.

p18 (13+3) a serpent like form is about to drop on us! 

p4 (8+5) the form misses me and uncoils on the ground, two snake heads darting. I move just of reach and get ready to fight.

p66 heads are all mine, Rija is busy with the tail. I jump to get a bit more distance and attack with my bow. I cast hunter”s mark on it and throw. 21 > 12. 14 dmg (with the mark). the single arrow strikes true through both heads, nailing them to a tree slightly upwards from my head. the long scaly body hangs from there while the tail wriggles. rows of sharp teeth dripping saliva, now harmless if still looking menacing.

p51 we should carry it back for study, but I am not strong enough to, so better to dissect it. 

p22 I apply my survival skills (15+5)

p49 extra bones, hardened tumours, oozing fluids… the corruption seems deep. does it have gills? there is a blue crystal in its chest, glimmering faintly. Tija seems interested in it. it looks similar to the ones she carries in her bandolier, if less glowy. she hands it to me.

we pack samples and find Gigar at the camp. he is eager to study them and moves into the wagon. he doesn’t let us in (Rija wanted to follow).

p88 spend the rest of the day at the camp eating and waiting. Gigar comes out. didn’t find anything new but he is now showing Blovo the map delivered.

p6 seems to be work in progress, with new notes added.

p96 (15+4) but the notes are contradictory, useless. there are notes about abnormalities: bird-lizard or , spiny frogs, another two-headed snake. all clustered towards the empty section of the map. towards the NE. S and W seem explored or dead-ends.

let’s get Z’ka

p58 yep, he points and references the NE, and seem to growl at Rija something she understands and nods to. also, something about the sky. time to rest for the night.

p33 but Z’ka wants to show me something. follow him to his area. the tablet resting against a wheel I think he sees himself as warrior and protector. the tablet carries the knowledge of his people and the region, the things in the dark we don’t know. 

p69 I don’t know about the history, bit this points to a civilised society.

p93 (3+3) magical power and crystals. I cannot tell more. “hidden under the under”, says Z’ka. have a goodberry for a snack and create a new batch. nite!

p10 rested (second night in the jungle), Blovo wakes up to the activity of the camp. it seems Rija and Z’ka left scouting on their own towards the NE. Blovo has been assigned yo support Gigar’s investigations. he produces an obsidian amulet representing a winged serpent with feathers instead of scales. Blovo is asked to hold it in order to begin, and he grasps it.

p47 some force gathers in the amulet and rushes to his mind.

p81 (15+3) 

p65 

p92

p37

p75 and set to rest for the night.

p97 but, after a short rest, he wakes up in the calm night. the usual noises he has come to expect. but something doesn’t feel right.


p31 (9+3) 

p14 

p73 fight! 11 > 10 (7+3), the lizardfolk goes first. brandishing his club he gets close to me and swings it at my head before I can do anything. hits (14 +4> 15), for 3+2 dmg. feeling the impact Blovo reels back, while loading and arrow. Blovo casts Hunter’s Mark on his quarry, moves away, avoiding a sluggish reaction blow (3+4), and releases the arrow from 15 ft. (14 +7 > 15), the arrow sinks strong and true (2+3+3). it was a single blow but it pierced through the armour piercing a lung and perhaps the heart. a bit deeper and it would have ended the fight. wailing, the lizard rushes forward but the anger is not enough and the pain makes it ineffective (10+4 < 15), as Blovo can anticipate a bit and narrowly dodge. Blovo drops the bow a few meters away and unsheathes a shortsword, thinking on finishing the combat clo se and avoid another attack. but fails (9+5 < 15), not being that adept to this form of combat. (10 +4 < 15) his foe fails as well, (8+5<15). (15+4>15) for 3+2. (15+5 > 15) and 3+3. the combat ends. 

p40 

p29 

p107
